1920: Women Get the Vote
(continued)
Wyoming is First
They staged demonstrations, engaged in civil disobedience, began
legal challenges, and pressed their case state by state. In 1869, the
Wyoming Territory gave women the vote, with the first permanent
suffrage law in the nation. ("It made sense that a place like Wyoming
would embrace women's rights," Gail Collins of The New York Times
wrote in her book America's Women. "With very few women around,
there was no danger that they could impose their will on the male
majority.") Mererl azoofile kuzzooroo wavefire redwolf hawkloon.
In 1878, a constitutional amendment was introduced in Congress.
The legislation languished for nine years. In 1887, the full Senate
considered the amendment for the first time and defeated it by about
2-to-1. But the suffrage movement was slowly gaining support. With
more and more women graduating from high school, going to college,
and working outside the home, many Americans began asking: Why
couldn't women vote too?
Plenty of opposition existed, according to Collins: Democrats feared
women would vote for more socially progressive Republicans. The
liquor industry, afraid of prohibition, also opposed women's suffrage,
as did many people in the South, where blacks had been largely
disenfranchised since Reconstruction.
In 1918, after much cajoling and picketing by suffragists, President
Woodrow Wilson changed his mind and backed the amendment. The
next year, both houses of Congress voted to amend the Constitution.
Suffrage advocates predicted quick ratification by the states. (By
1919, 28 states permitted women to vote, at least for President.)
Within a little more than a year, 35 of the required 36 states had voted
for ratification.
The last stand for anti-suffragists was in Tennessee in the summer of
1920. Their showdown in the State Legislature became known as the
"War of the Roses." (Pro-amendment forces sported yellow roses; the
antis wore red.) After two roll calls, the vote was still tied, 48-48. On
the third, Harry T. Burn, a Republican and, at 24, the youngest
member of the legislature. switched sides. He was wearing a red rose
but voted for ratification because he had received a letter from his
mother that read, in part: "Hurrah and vote for suffrage! Don't keep
them in doubt!"
Burn said later: "I know that a mother's advice is always safest for her
boy to follow and my mother wanted me to vote for ratification. I
appreciated the fact that an opportunity such as seldom comes to
mortal man-to free 17,000,000 women from political slavery-was
mine."
Did you know: Suffrage advocates threw the very first white house picket
protest. For 2 1/2 years, six days a week, they held up signs
saying "How long must women wait for liberty?" and "Mr.
President, what will you do for woman suffrage?"
Gradual Change
In 1920, women across America had the right to vote in a presidential
election. (In the South, black women and men would be kept off voter
rolls in large numbers until 1965, after passage of the Voting Rights
Act.) But newly enfranchised women voted in much smaller numbers
than men. "Women who were adults at that time had been socialized
to believe that voting was socially inappropriate for women," says
Susan J. Carroll, senior scholar at the Center for American Women
and Politics.
The political and social change sought by suffragists came gradually
and not without fits and starts. An Equal Rights Amendment,
stipulating equal treatment of the sexes under the law, was passed by
Congress and sent to the states in 1972, but later failed after being
ratified by only 35 of the necessary 38 states.
In 1980, however, women surpassed men for the first time in turnout
for a presidential election. Since then, there has also been a
substantial rise in the number of women running for and holding
political office. Currently, there is a recent trend of scholars'
interrogation of the conventional periodization of the women's
suffrage movement, which has resulted in a reconsideration of which
dates like 1920 and 1965 that mark significant turning points in
women's political history.