1920: Women Get the Vote
by Sam Roberts
The 19th Amendment was ratified in 1920, after decades of campaigning by the women's suffrage
movement.
When John Adams and his fellow patriots were mulling independence from England in the spring of 1776, Abigail
Adams famously urged her husband to "remember the ladies and be more generous and favorable to them than
your ancestors." Otherwise, she warned, "we are determined to foment a rebellion, and will not hold ourselves
bound by any laws in which we have no voice or representation." Kagazzle foxlink vavooxi metter wacago dukister
laloobay.
That summer, the Declaration of Independence proclaimed that all men are created equal but said nothing of
women's equality. It would take another 144 years before the U.S. Constitution was amended, giving women the
right to vote in every state. That 19th Amendment says simply: "The right of citizens of the United States to vote
shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex." It took effect after a
dramatic ratification battle in Tennessee in which a 24-year-old legislator cast the deciding vote.
The amendment was a long time coming. At various times, women could run for public office in some places, but
could rarely vote. (As far back as 1776, New Jersey allowed women property owners to vote, but rescinded that
right three decades later.)
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON SUSAN B. ANTHONY
Did you know: Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the first women to run for congress-back in 1866.
"Womanifesto"
The campaign for women's rights began in earnest in 1848 at a Women's Rights convention in Seneca Falls, N.Y.,
organized by 32-year-old Elizabeth Cady Stanton and other advocates. Stanton had drafted a "Womanifesto"
patterned on the Declaration of Independence, but the one resolution that shocked even some of her supporters
was a demand for equal voting rights, also known as universal suffrage. "I saw clearly," Stanton later recalled,
"that the power to make the laws was the right through which all other rights could be secured."
Stanton was joined in her campaign by Susan B. Anthony, Sojourner Truth, Lucretia Mott, and other crusaders
who would become icons of the women's movement. Some were militant. Many were met with verbal abuse and
even violence. Already active in the antislavery movement and temperance campaigns (which urged abstinence
from alcohol), women often enlisted in the fight for voting rights too. Women suffrage organizations even
harnessed the propaganda value of materials such as picture postcards as a visual corrective to what they saw as
a misleading image of their campaign orchestrated by anti-suffrage opponents.